---
title: "Food for Thought"
author:
    name: Thomas E.
date: February 1, 2022
summary: "The dataset that I found interesting was from a website called What's on
the Menu?"
---

## The Data

The dataset that I found interesting was from a website called What's on
the Menu? with the data being dishes from the early twentieth century in
New York City. The curators primarily made this data set to keep records
of dishes made in the past, but they also allow anyone to contribute
through the process of making an account. While researching on the topic
of food, it made me realize the influence and variety food has on other
people. As I was searching through the menus I noticed that the
restaurants each had different cultures and ethnic food tied to them
from Asian foods, Scandinavian, and also some more Italian inspired
dishes.

![menus](../../../../../humdata22/img/te150-fig1-blog1.png)

## Meaning of Food

From the amount of different cultures I've seen in these menus, I can
differently see that there could be many immigrants arriving in New York
City to make a living by creating dishes from their homeland. I believe
that food is very important as it can bring people together, spread
awareness for cultures, and everyone must eat so exposure is inevitable.

![Scandinavian Herring Platter](../../../../../humdata22/img/te150-fig2-blog1.png)

## Data Set Issues

Some problems that I found with the data set are there aren't that many
menus to have a firm opinion on the variety of food in New York City.
The only problems that come to mind are the questions relating to if
people actually ate the food come to mind or the popularity of certain
restaurants. These questions pose a point of if people were willing to
try the food or if those restaurants were very niche. Although a dish's
success can mostly likely be assumed due to a chart of the dish
appearing on the menu.

## Final Thoughts

Personally, food is a topic that I believe everyone can relate to,
whether it comforts you or gives delight, the data shows which dishes
were popular enough to be passed on through the years from menu to menu.
I think its great that there is a catalog of menus from New York City on
a public database because it allows everyone to see what certain
restaurants were making and what generally made the cut.

## Sources

<http://menus.nypl.org/menus/decade/2000s>

<http://menus.nypl.org/menus/29252>

<http://menus.nypl.org/menu_pages/55994/explore>
