---
title: "New Jersey 1824 Sheriff, Middlesex County"
author:
    name: io99
date: February 1, 2022
summary: "I chose the dataset &quot;New Jersey 1824 Sheriff, Middlesex County&quot;"
---

<br>

![New Jersey 1824 Sheriff, Middlesex County](../../../../../humdata22/img/io99-blog1.png)

I chose the dataset "New Jersey 1824 Sheriff, Middlesex County", a
dataset that shows the votes for choosing who the sheriff of Middlesex
County will be for 1824, because it closely relates to me as I also live
within Middlesex County. The dataset was collected by Philip J. Lampi,
an influential historian who was known for organizing past records of
votes. Using this data, it would be near impossible to figure out the
demographics of those who voted but due to the time period, it would be
safe to assume that the majority of those who voted were white males.
You would not be able to tell who was the previous sheriff as well with
this data. In certain areas, it can be seen that those areas largely
prefer one candidate over the others. For example, Woodbridge seems to
largely favor J. Coddington over the other 3 candidates. We can make a
guess that J. Coddington could have been born or reside within this town
as many supporters usually come from hometown areas. Some questions to
explore are why might certain areas like a certain candidate over
another. But to figure this question out, this dataset would need a list
of each candidate's achievements as well as race, place of birth and
other factors that may affect a candidate's likability. With this
dataset, we can ask which towns have more impact (votes) than others by
adding up the total votes each town gave and compare the number of votes
with other towns.
