---
title: "Blog post #1"
author:
    name: vm557
summary: "The dataset I have selected is &quot;What's on the menu?&quot;"
---

The dataset I have selected is “What's on the menu?”, its function is to transcribe historical
restaurant menus and offer up-to-date information on what people used to eat in restaurants
several years ago. I choose this dataset because food is a topic that I strongly resonate with as I
love to experience every type of cuisine. One of my favorite types is seafood, which is a menu I
decided to look more into. What makes this menu interesting is how it shows how much the
currency has changed over the years for items that are if not very similar, exactly the same. This
dataset is from Philadelphia on January 20, 1943. In this specific dataset, I cannot find any gaps
or limitations, which can be related because the item which I am analyzing was put through use
almost every day making it something that most likely wouldn't have flaws. However, if I analyze
the website as a whole there are still multiple menus waiting to be processed and deciphered
which limits the amount of knowledge that is offered, Impeding people from answering questions
about the specific menus that they could be looking for. Some questions I could explore with this
data set are and why did the restaurant shut down if it seemed reliable and well structured, why
have the menu items not been adapted by the decades. If I have to present an argument to an
audience I would direct it towards food critics, food historians, or the family of the owners of the
restaurant as these groups are to most related to the topics of my dataset.